docs/Installation.md, before:

---
id: Installation
title: Installation
sidebar_label: Installation
---

## Setup instructions

Follow the instructions for supported operating systems or use the comprehensive
list of dependencies.

### 1. Install python3 and docker:

#### MacOS

Using [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/):

```bash
brew install python3 docker docker-compose
brew cask install docker
open -a Docker
```

Once the Docker app appears in the menu bar, wait until the yellow light turns
green (no need to log into Docker).

#### Ubuntu 20.04

Using apt:

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y curl python3 python3-pip
```

Then setup docker using the [official instructions](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/)

Also setup docker compose using the [official instructions](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

### 2. Install node, yarn and truffle

```bash
touch ~/.bashrc
curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/creationix/nvm/v0.35.3/install.sh | bash
. ~/.bashrc
nvm install --lts

curl -o- -L https://yarnpkg.com/install.sh | bash
. ~/.bashrc

yarn global add truffle
```

### Full list

Here are the important dependencies in case you are not running on a supported OS:

- [docker](https://github.com/docker/docker-ce/releases) and
  [docker-compose](https://github.com/docker/compose/releases)
- [node](https://nodejs.org/en/)
- [python3 and pip3](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
- [truffle](https://truffleframework.com/docs/truffle/getting-started/installation)
- [yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/en/)

> Requires `node -v` version >=12

> Requires`python3 --version` 3.6 or greater

## Download Arbitrum

Download the Arbitrum Monorepo from source:

```bash
git clone -b master https://github.com/offchainlabs/arbitrum.git
cd arbitrum
git submodule update --init --recursive
yarn
yarn build
```

# Native setup instructions

For most users we recommend that you run Arbitrum through our easy docker setup. However if you want to install Arbitrum natively, additionally follow these instructions:

#### MacOS

```bash
brew install autoconf automake boost cmake gmp go libtool rocksdb openssl
```

#### Ubuntu 20.04

```bash
sudo add-apt-repository -y ppa:longsleep/golang-backports
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y autoconf automake cmake libboost-dev libboost-filesystem-dev libgmp-dev libssl-dev libgflags-dev libsnappy-dev zlib1g-dev libbz2-dev liblz4-dev libzstd-dev libtool golang-go clang-format

git clone -b v6.11.4 https://github.com/facebook/rocksdb
cd rocksdb
make -j 16 shared_lib
sudo make install-shared
```

#### Fedora 35
```bash
sudo dnf install automake cmake boost-devel bzip2-devel clang-tools-extra gflags-devel gmp-devel golang-bin jemalloc-devel libatomic libtool libusb libzstd-devel lz4-devel openssl-devel snappy-devel zlib-devel

git clone -b v6.11.4 https://github.com/facebook/rocksdb
cd rocksdb
DISABLE_WARNING_AS_ERROR=1 make -j 16 shared_lib
sudo make install-shared
```

#### Troubleshooting
An error like the following means that your gcc compiler doesn't recognise your processor.
```
cc1plus: error: bad value (‘tigerlake’) for ‘-mtune=’ switch
cc1plus: note: valid arguments to ‘-mtune=’ switch are: nocona core2 nehalem corei7 westmere sandybridge corei7-avx ivybridge core-avx-i haswell core-avx2 broadwell skylake skylake-avx512 cannonlake icelake-client icelake-server cascadelake bonnell atom silvermont slm goldmont goldmont-plus tremont knl knm intel x86-64 eden-x2 nano nano-1000 nano-2000 nano-3000 nano-x2 eden-x4 nano-x4 k8 k8-sse3 opteron opteron-sse3 athlon64 athlon64-sse3 athlon-fx amdfam10 barcelona bdver1 bdver2 bdver3 bdver4 znver1 znver2 btver1 btver2 generic native
```
If you get it ensure that you're using an up-to-date version of gcc and g++.

## Install Arbitrum

With the dependencies installed, you can now install Arbitrum locally with

```bash
cd arbitrum
yarn install:validator
```

Commit message:

Added troubleshooting guidance for shared object errors

docs/Installation.md, after:

---
id: Installation
title: Installation
sidebar_label: Installation
---

## Setup instructions

Follow the instructions for supported operating systems or use the comprehensive
list of dependencies.

### 1. Install python3 and docker:

#### MacOS

Using [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/):

```bash
brew install python3 docker docker-compose
brew cask install docker
open -a Docker
```

Once the Docker app appears in the menu bar, wait until the yellow light turns
green (no need to log into Docker).

#### Ubuntu 20.04

Using apt:

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y curl python3 python3-pip
```

Then setup docker using the [official instructions](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/)

Also setup docker compose using the [official instructions](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

### 2. Install node, yarn and truffle

```bash
touch ~/.bashrc
curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/creationix/nvm/v0.35.3/install.sh | bash
. ~/.bashrc
nvm install --lts

curl -o- -L https://yarnpkg.com/install.sh | bash
. ~/.bashrc

yarn global add truffle
```

### Full list

Here are the important dependencies in case you are not running on a supported OS:

- [docker](https://github.com/docker/docker-ce/releases) and
  [docker-compose](https://github.com/docker/compose/releases)
- [node](https://nodejs.org/en/)
- [python3 and pip3](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
- [truffle](https://truffleframework.com/docs/truffle/getting-started/installation)
- [yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/en/)

> Requires `node -v` version >=12

> Requires`python3 --version` 3.6 or greater

## Download Arbitrum

Download the Arbitrum Monorepo from source:

```bash
git clone -b master https://github.com/offchainlabs/arbitrum.git
cd arbitrum
git submodule update --init --recursive
yarn
yarn build
```

# Native setup instructions

For most users we recommend that you run Arbitrum through our easy docker setup. However if you want to install Arbitrum natively, additionally follow these instructions:

#### MacOS

```bash
brew install autoconf automake boost cmake gmp go libtool rocksdb openssl
```

#### Ubuntu 20.04

```bash
sudo add-apt-repository -y ppa:longsleep/golang-backports
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y autoconf automake cmake libboost-dev libboost-filesystem-dev libgmp-dev libssl-dev libgflags-dev libsnappy-dev zlib1g-dev libbz2-dev liblz4-dev libzstd-dev libtool golang-go clang-format

git clone -b v6.11.4 https://github.com/facebook/rocksdb
cd rocksdb
make -j 16 shared_lib
sudo make install-shared
```

#### Fedora 35
```bash
sudo dnf install automake cmake boost-devel bzip2-devel clang-tools-extra gflags-devel gmp-devel golang-bin jemalloc-devel libatomic libtool libusb libzstd-devel lz4-devel openssl-devel snappy-devel zlib-devel

git clone -b v6.11.4 https://github.com/facebook/rocksdb
cd rocksdb
DISABLE_WARNING_AS_ERROR=1 make -j 16 shared_lib
sudo make install-shared
```

#### Troubleshooting

##### Out-of-date gcc
An error like the following means that your gcc compiler doesn't recognise your processor. 

```text
cc1plus: error: bad value (‘tigerlake’) for ‘-mtune=’ switch
cc1plus: note: valid arguments to ‘-mtune=’ switch are: nocona core2 nehalem corei7 westmere sandybridge corei7-avx ivybridge core-avx-i haswell core-avx2 broadwell skylake skylake-avx512 cannonlake icelake-client icelake-server cascadelake bonnell atom silvermont slm goldmont goldmont-plus tremont knl knm intel x86-64 eden-x2 nano nano-1000 nano-2000 nano-3000 nano-x2 eden-x4 nano-x4 k8 k8-sse3 opteron opteron-sse3 athlon64 athlon64-sse3 athlon-fx amdfam10 barcelona bdver1 bdver2 bdver3 bdver4 znver1 znver2 btver1 btver2 generic native
```
If you get it ensure that you're using an up-to-date version of gcc and g++.

##### Shared object errors
When using a Linux distro, if you experience errors like
```text
error while loading shared libraries: librocksdb.so.6.11: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory
exit status 127
```
when running the dev node or other application it could be because the shared library did not correctly link.
You can run the following command to update shared object links
```sh
sudo /sbin/ldconfig -v
```

## Install Arbitrum

With the dependencies installed, you can now install Arbitrum locally with

```bash
cd arbitrum
yarn install:validator
```
