docs/Mainnet.md, before:

---
id: Mainnet
title: Mainnet Beta — Get Started
sidebar_label: Mainnet Beta
---

Arbitrum One — the first permissionless Ethereum layer 2 with full Ethereum smart contract functionality — is [live](https://offchain.medium.com/mainnet-for-everyone-27ce0f67c85e)! We're sure you're (almost) as excited as we are; here's what you need to know before using the system:

### Some Words of Caution

- **Why Mainnet "Beta?"; Current De/Centralization State**: Arbitrum One has its full feature set that you'll see described in these docs fully implemented and live: fraud proofs, permissionless usage, open validation, you name it. That said, given that Arbitrum is still a new, cutting edge, and complex system, we currently maintain various levels of control over the system while still in this early Beta phase; this includes contract upgradeability and the ability to pause the system. We believe temporarily maintaining these capabilities is the only responsible way to launch while we continue to harden our system; as we progressively decentralized, these controls will be phased and eventually eliminated entirely.

  To track the status of Aribtrum One's decentralization, you can follow updates from [us](https://offchain.medium.com/) (obviously) or check out [L2Beats](https://l2beat.com/projects/arbitrum/), who have thus far done a great job of thoroughly and responsibly providing information on Arbitrum and other L2 systems.

- **Why Mainnet "Beta?": Undiscovered Bugs 😱**: Despite the fact that we at Offchain Labs have thoroughly thought through the many design choices in our protocol, have been as careful implementing them as we could be, have been audited by several independent firms, have a team of engineers that are all very smart and cool, etc.,... there remains a non-zero chance that our codebase contains some undiscovered vulnerabilities that put user funds at risk. Users should carefully factor in this risk in their decision to use Arbitrum one / in deciding how much of their value to entrust into the system. (And should you yourself happen to discover one such bug, might we kindly direct you to our [bug bounty program](https://immunefi.com/bounty/arbitrum/)?)

- **General Caution: Beware of Scams and Rugs**: Arbitrum, like Ethereum, is permissionless; on both platforms, anybody can deploy any smart contract code they want. Users should treat interacting with contracts on Arbitrum exactly as they do with Ethereum, i.e., they should only do so if they have good reason to trust that the application is secure.

## Getting Started

..okay, with that out of the way, let's talk about getting started using Arbitrum one! To get a sense of what's out there, you can check out our [portal page](https://portal.arbitrum.one/), where we showcase some of the dApps, wallets, and infrastructure currently live on Arbitrum.

### Connect Your Wallet

A good place to start is to connect your favorite Ethereum wallet to the Arbitrum one chain.

**Chain Info:**

Name:** Arbitrum One**

ChainID: **42161**

Currency Symbol: **ETH**

Public RPC Endpoints:

- Offchain Labs: **https://arb1.arbitrum.io/rpc**
- Infura: **[https://arbitrum-mainnet.infura.io/v3/YOUR-PROJECT-ID](https://infura.io/docs/ethereum#section/Choose-a-Network)**
- Alchemy: **[https://arb-mainnet.g.alchemy.com/v2/your-api-key](https://docs.alchemy.com/alchemy/apis/arbitrum)**

### Depositing and Withdrawing

To use dApps on Arbitrum, you will need to deposit some Ether onto the Arbitrum chain to pay for ArbGas. To move your Ether and Tokens between Arbitrum and Ethereum, you can use our [bridge](https://bridge.arbitrum.io/).

### ...But What Is Going On?

Check out one of the Arbitrum One block explorers to see transactions being processed in real time:

- [Arbiscan](https://arbiscan.io/)

- [https://explorer.arbitrum.io/](https://explorer.arbitrum.io/)

## What Next

The team working on Arbitrum is always interested and looking forward to engage with its users.  
Why not follow us on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/arbitrum) or join our community on [Discord](https://discord.gg/5KE54JwyTs)?

Commit message:

add validator and token bridge whitelisting notes to mainnet.md

docs/Mainnet.md, after:

---
id: Mainnet
title: Mainnet Beta — Get Started
sidebar_label: Mainnet Beta
---

Arbitrum One — the first permissionless Ethereum layer 2 with full Ethereum smart contract functionality — is [live](https://offchain.medium.com/mainnet-for-everyone-27ce0f67c85e)! We're sure you're (almost) as excited as we are; here's what you need to know before using the system:

### Some Words of Caution

- **Why Mainnet "Beta?"; Current De/Centralization State**: Arbitrum One has its full feature set that you'll see described in these docs fully implemented and live: fraud proofs, permissionless usage, you name it. That said, given that Arbitrum is still a new, cutting edge, and complex system, we currently maintain various levels of control over the system while still in this early Beta phase; this includes contract upgradeability, the ability to pause the system, validator whitelisting, and [token bridge whitelisting](https://offchain.medium.com/continued-path-to-decentralization-bridging-tokens-into-arbitrum-42a94b054560). We believe temporarily maintaining these capabilities is the only responsible way to launch while we continue to harden our system; as we progressively decentralized, these controls will be phased and eventually eliminated entirely.

  To track the status of Aribtrum One's decentralization, you can follow updates from [us](https://offchain.medium.com/) (obviously) or check out [L2Beats](https://l2beat.com/projects/arbitrum/), who have thus far done a great job of thoroughly and responsibly providing information on Arbitrum and other L2 systems.

- **Why Mainnet "Beta?": Undiscovered Bugs 😱**: Despite the fact that we at Offchain Labs have thoroughly thought through the many design choices in our protocol, have been as careful implementing them as we could be, have been audited by several independent firms, have a team of engineers that are all very smart and cool, etc.,... there remains a non-zero chance that our codebase contains some undiscovered vulnerabilities that put user funds at risk. Users should carefully factor in this risk in their decision to use Arbitrum one / in deciding how much of their value to entrust into the system. (And should you yourself happen to discover one such bug, might we kindly direct you to our [bug bounty program](https://immunefi.com/bounty/arbitrum/)?)

- **General Caution: Beware of Scams and Rugs**: Arbitrum, like Ethereum, is permissionless; on both platforms, anybody can deploy any smart contract code they want. Users should treat interacting with contracts on Arbitrum exactly as they do with Ethereum, i.e., they should only do so if they have good reason to trust that the application is secure.

## Getting Started

..okay, with that out of the way, let's talk about getting started using Arbitrum one! To get a sense of what's out there, you can check out our [portal page](https://portal.arbitrum.one/), where we showcase some of the dApps, wallets, and infrastructure currently live on Arbitrum.

### Connect Your Wallet

A good place to start is to connect your favorite Ethereum wallet to the Arbitrum one chain.

**Chain Info:**

Name:** Arbitrum One**

ChainID: **42161**

Currency Symbol: **ETH**

Public RPC Endpoints:

- Offchain Labs: **https://arb1.arbitrum.io/rpc**
- Infura: **[https://arbitrum-mainnet.infura.io/v3/YOUR-PROJECT-ID](https://infura.io/docs/ethereum#section/Choose-a-Network)**
- Alchemy: **[https://arb-mainnet.g.alchemy.com/v2/your-api-key](https://docs.alchemy.com/alchemy/apis/arbitrum)**

### Depositing and Withdrawing

To use dApps on Arbitrum, you will need to deposit some Ether onto the Arbitrum chain to pay for ArbGas. To move your Ether and Tokens between Arbitrum and Ethereum, you can use our [bridge](https://bridge.arbitrum.io/).

### ...But What Is Going On?

Check out one of the Arbitrum One block explorers to see transactions being processed in real time:

- [Arbiscan](https://arbiscan.io/)

- [https://explorer.arbitrum.io/](https://explorer.arbitrum.io/)

## What Next

The team working on Arbitrum is always interested and looking forward to engage with its users.  
Why not follow us on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/arbitrum) or join our community on [Discord](https://discord.gg/5KE54JwyTs)?
