docs/Useful_Addresses.md, before:

---
id: Useful_Addresses
title: Contract Addresses Of Note
sidebar_label: Useful Addresses
---

Here's some contract addreses that may be useful and/or of interest to those exploring the Arbitrum protcol:

### Protocol (L1)

|                     | Mainnet                                                                                                               | Rinkeby                                                                                                                       |
| ------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Rollup              | [0xC12BA48c781F6e392B49Db2E25Cd0c28cD77531A](https://etherscan.io/address/0xC12BA48c781F6e392B49Db2E25Cd0c28cD77531A) | [0xFe2c86CF40F89Fe2F726cFBBACEBae631300b50c](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/address/0xFe2c86CF40F89Fe2F726cFBBACEBae631300b50c) |
| Delayed Inbox       | [0x4Dbd4fc535Ac27206064B68FfCf827b0A60BAB3f](https://etherscan.io/address/0x4Dbd4fc535Ac27206064B68FfCf827b0A60BAB3f) | [0x578BAde599406A8fE3d24Fd7f7211c0911F5B29e](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/address/0x578BAde599406A8fE3d24Fd7f7211c0911F5B29e) |
| Sequencer Inbox     | [0x4c6f947Ae67F572afa4ae0730947DE7C874F95Ef](https://etherscan.io/address/0x4c6f947Ae67F572afa4ae0730947DE7C874F95Ef) | [0xe1ae39e91c5505f7f0ffc9e2bbf1f6e1122dcfa8](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/address/0xe1ae39e91c5505f7f0ffc9e2bbf1f6e1122dcfa8) |
| Bridge              | [0x9a28e783c47bbeb813f32b861a431d0776681e95](https://etherscan.io/address/0x9a28e783c47bbeb813f32b861a431d0776681e95) | [0x9a28e783c47bbeb813f32b861a431d0776681e95](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/address/0x9a28e783c47bbeb813f32b861a431d0776681e95) |
| Outbox              | [0x760723CD2e632826c38Fef8CD438A4CC7E7E1A40](https://etherscan.io/address/0x760723CD2e632826c38Fef8CD438A4CC7E7E1A40) | [0x2360A33905dc1c72b12d975d975F42BaBdcef9F3](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/address/0x2360A33905dc1c72b12d975d975F42BaBdcef9F3) |
| One Step Proof      | [0x4812be53be02b9f38063cf55fef0a19d2ba8bb3a](https://etherscan.io/address/0x4812be53be02b9f38063cf55fef0a19d2ba8bb3a) | [0x6210a4eD13A487a5925EBe956b7a6E0b83325DA4](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/address/0x6210a4eD13A487a5925EBe956b7a6E0b83325DA4) |
| One Step Proof 2    | [0x2df287a3b2fd0916c0b3d4882201ff360acd6ec3](https://etherscan.io/address/0x2df287a3b2fd0916c0b3d4882201ff360acd6ec3) | [0xb1F17484b93037d898b86E760fFA4B1E62445B8e](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/address/0xb1F17484b93037d898b86E760fFA4B1E62445B8e) |
| One Step Proof Hash | [0xce81e7d009e53c02242b724819df1869da5e9fd8](https://etherscan.io/address/0xce81e7d009e53c02242b724819df1869da5e9fd8) | [0x0Cfb138F6Ca11D794907FA9cC01920EB93CBFF45](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/address/0x0Cfb138F6Ca11D794907FA9cC01920EB93CBFF45) |
| Challenge           | [0x6ad1dc4ab5475d9f8cd10118c9d28b06f0c8a2d9](https://etherscan.io/address/0x6ad1dc4ab5475d9f8cd10118c9d28b06f0c8a2d9) | [0x57094dcd1F928076FaEe852EDdb933997845A4e4](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/address/0x57094dcd1F928076FaEe852EDdb933997845A4e4) |

### Token Bridge

|                       | Mainnet                                                                                                               | Rinkeby                                                                                                                               |
| --------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| L1 Gateway Router     | [0x72Ce9c846789fdB6fC1f34aC4AD25Dd9ef7031ef](https://etherscan.io/address/0x72Ce9c846789fdB6fC1f34aC4AD25Dd9ef7031ef) | [0x70C143928eCfFaf9F5b406f7f4fC28Dc43d68380](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/address/0x70C143928eCfFaf9F5b406f7f4fC28Dc43d68380)         |
| L2 Gateway Router     | [0x5288c571Fd7aD117beA99bF60FE0846C4E84F933](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x5288c571Fd7aD117beA99bF60FE0846C4E84F933)  | [0x9413AD42910c1eA60c737dB5f58d1C504498a3cD](https://rinkeby-explorer.arbitrum.io/address/0x9413AD42910c1eA60c737dB5f58d1C504498a3cD) |
| L1 ERC20 Gateway      | [0xa3A7B6F88361F48403514059F1F16C8E78d60EeC](https://etherscan.io/address/0xa3A7B6F88361F48403514059F1F16C8E78d60EeC) | [0x91169Dbb45e6804743F94609De50D511C437572E](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/address/0x91169Dbb45e6804743F94609De50D511C437572E)         |
| L2 ERC20 Gateway      | [0x09e9222E96E7B4AE2a407B98d48e330053351EEe](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x09e9222E96E7B4AE2a407B98d48e330053351EEe)  | [0x195C107F3F75c4C93Eba7d9a1312F19305d6375f](https://rinkeby-explorer.arbitrum.io/address/0x195C107F3F75c4C93Eba7d9a1312F19305d6375f) |
| L1 Arb-Custom Gateway | [0xcEe284F754E854890e311e3280b767F80797180d](https://etherscan.io/address/0xcEe284F754E854890e311e3280b767F80797180d) | [0x917dc9a69F65dC3082D518192cd3725E1Fa96cA2](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/address/0x917dc9a69F65dC3082D518192cd3725E1Fa96cA2)         |
| L2 Arb-Custom Gateway | [0x096760F208390250649E3e8763348E783AEF5562](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x096760F208390250649E3e8763348E783AEF5562)  | [0x9b014455AcC2Fe90c52803849d0002aeEC184a06](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x9b014455AcC2Fe90c52803849d0002aeEC184a06)                  |
| L1 Weth Gateway       | [0xd92023E9d9911199a6711321D1277285e6d4e2db](https://etherscan.io/address/0xd92023E9d9911199a6711321D1277285e6d4e2db) | [0x81d1a19cf7071732D4313c75dE8DD5b8CF697eFD](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/address/0x81d1a19cf7071732D4313c75dE8DD5b8CF697eFD)         |
| L2 Weth Gateway       | [0x6c411aD3E74De3E7Bd422b94A27770f5B86C623B](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x6c411aD3E74De3E7Bd422b94A27770f5B86C623B)  | [0xf94bc045c4E926CC0b34e8D1c41Cd7a043304ac9](https://arbiscan.io/address/0xf94bc045c4E926CC0b34e8D1c41Cd7a043304ac9)                  |
| L1 Weth               | [0xc02aaa39b223fe8d0a0e5c4f27ead9083c756cc2](https://etherscan.io/address/0xc02aaa39b223fe8d0a0e5c4f27ead9083c756cc2) | [0xc778417E063141139Fce010982780140Aa0cD5Ab](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/address/0xc778417E063141139Fce010982780140Aa0cD5Ab)         |
| L2 Weth               | [0x82aF49447D8a07e3bd95BD0d56f35241523fBab1](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x82aF49447D8a07e3bd95BD0d56f35241523fBab1)  | [0xB47e6A5f8b33b3F17603C83a0535A9dcD7E32681](https://arbiscan.io/address/0xB47e6A5f8b33b3F17603C83a0535A9dcD7E32681)                  |

### Arbitrum Precompiles (L2, same on all Arb-chains)

|                  | Address                                                                                                              |
| ---------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ArbSys           | [0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000064](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000064) |
| ArbRetryableTx   | [0x000000000000000000000000000000000000006E](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x000000000000000000000000000000000000006E) |
| ArbGasInfo       | [0x000000000000000000000000000000000000006C](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x000000000000000000000000000000000000006C) |
| ArbAddressTable  | [0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000066](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000066) |
| ArbStatistics    | [0x000000000000000000000000000000000000006F](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x000000000000000000000000000000000000006F) |
| NodeInterface    | [0x00000000000000000000000000000000000000C8](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x00000000000000000000000000000000000000C8) |
| ArbBLS           | [0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000067](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000067) |
| ArbInfo          | [0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000065](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000065) |
| ArbAggregator    | [0x000000000000000000000000000000000000006D](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x000000000000000000000000000000000000006D) |
| ArbFunctionTable | [0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000068](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000068) |

### Misc

|              | Mainnet                                                                                                              | Rinkeby                                                                                                                               |
| ------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| L2 Multicall | [0x842eC2c7D803033Edf55E478F461FC547Bc54EB2](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x842eC2c7D803033Edf55E478F461FC547Bc54EB2) | [0x5D6e06d3E154C5DBEC91317f0d04AE03AB49A273](https://rinkeby-explorer.arbitrum.io/address/0x5D6e06d3E154C5DBEC91317f0d04AE03AB49A273) |

Commit message:

add warnign about simple transfers to token bridge contracts

docs/Useful_Addresses.md, after:

---
id: Useful_Addresses
title: Contract Addresses Of Note
sidebar_label: Useful Addresses
---

Here's some contract addreses that may be useful and/or of interest to those exploring the Arbitrum protcol:

### Protocol (L1)

|                     | Mainnet                                                                                                               | Rinkeby                                                                                                                       |
| ------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Rollup              | [0xC12BA48c781F6e392B49Db2E25Cd0c28cD77531A](https://etherscan.io/address/0xC12BA48c781F6e392B49Db2E25Cd0c28cD77531A) | [0xFe2c86CF40F89Fe2F726cFBBACEBae631300b50c](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/address/0xFe2c86CF40F89Fe2F726cFBBACEBae631300b50c) |
| Delayed Inbox       | [0x4Dbd4fc535Ac27206064B68FfCf827b0A60BAB3f](https://etherscan.io/address/0x4Dbd4fc535Ac27206064B68FfCf827b0A60BAB3f) | [0x578BAde599406A8fE3d24Fd7f7211c0911F5B29e](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/address/0x578BAde599406A8fE3d24Fd7f7211c0911F5B29e) |
| Sequencer Inbox     | [0x4c6f947Ae67F572afa4ae0730947DE7C874F95Ef](https://etherscan.io/address/0x4c6f947Ae67F572afa4ae0730947DE7C874F95Ef) | [0xe1ae39e91c5505f7f0ffc9e2bbf1f6e1122dcfa8](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/address/0xe1ae39e91c5505f7f0ffc9e2bbf1f6e1122dcfa8) |
| Bridge              | [0x9a28e783c47bbeb813f32b861a431d0776681e95](https://etherscan.io/address/0x9a28e783c47bbeb813f32b861a431d0776681e95) | [0x9a28e783c47bbeb813f32b861a431d0776681e95](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/address/0x9a28e783c47bbeb813f32b861a431d0776681e95) |
| Outbox              | [0x760723CD2e632826c38Fef8CD438A4CC7E7E1A40](https://etherscan.io/address/0x760723CD2e632826c38Fef8CD438A4CC7E7E1A40) | [0x2360A33905dc1c72b12d975d975F42BaBdcef9F3](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/address/0x2360A33905dc1c72b12d975d975F42BaBdcef9F3) |
| One Step Proof      | [0x4812be53be02b9f38063cf55fef0a19d2ba8bb3a](https://etherscan.io/address/0x4812be53be02b9f38063cf55fef0a19d2ba8bb3a) | [0x6210a4eD13A487a5925EBe956b7a6E0b83325DA4](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/address/0x6210a4eD13A487a5925EBe956b7a6E0b83325DA4) |
| One Step Proof 2    | [0x2df287a3b2fd0916c0b3d4882201ff360acd6ec3](https://etherscan.io/address/0x2df287a3b2fd0916c0b3d4882201ff360acd6ec3) | [0xb1F17484b93037d898b86E760fFA4B1E62445B8e](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/address/0xb1F17484b93037d898b86E760fFA4B1E62445B8e) |
| One Step Proof Hash | [0xce81e7d009e53c02242b724819df1869da5e9fd8](https://etherscan.io/address/0xce81e7d009e53c02242b724819df1869da5e9fd8) | [0x0Cfb138F6Ca11D794907FA9cC01920EB93CBFF45](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/address/0x0Cfb138F6Ca11D794907FA9cC01920EB93CBFF45) |
| Challenge           | [0x6ad1dc4ab5475d9f8cd10118c9d28b06f0c8a2d9](https://etherscan.io/address/0x6ad1dc4ab5475d9f8cd10118c9d28b06f0c8a2d9) | [0x57094dcd1F928076FaEe852EDdb933997845A4e4](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/address/0x57094dcd1F928076FaEe852EDdb933997845A4e4) |

### Token Bridge

**IMPORTANT**: _Do **not** simply transfer tokens or Ether to any of the addresses below; it will result in loss of funds._

_Users should only interact with the token bridge via dapp interfaces like https://bridge.arbitrum.io_.

|                       | Mainnet                                                                                                               | Rinkeby                                                                                                                               |
| --------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| L1 Gateway Router     | [0x72Ce9c846789fdB6fC1f34aC4AD25Dd9ef7031ef](https://etherscan.io/address/0x72Ce9c846789fdB6fC1f34aC4AD25Dd9ef7031ef) | [0x70C143928eCfFaf9F5b406f7f4fC28Dc43d68380](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/address/0x70C143928eCfFaf9F5b406f7f4fC28Dc43d68380)         |
| L2 Gateway Router     | [0x5288c571Fd7aD117beA99bF60FE0846C4E84F933](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x5288c571Fd7aD117beA99bF60FE0846C4E84F933)  | [0x9413AD42910c1eA60c737dB5f58d1C504498a3cD](https://rinkeby-explorer.arbitrum.io/address/0x9413AD42910c1eA60c737dB5f58d1C504498a3cD) |
| L1 ERC20 Gateway      | [0xa3A7B6F88361F48403514059F1F16C8E78d60EeC](https://etherscan.io/address/0xa3A7B6F88361F48403514059F1F16C8E78d60EeC) | [0x91169Dbb45e6804743F94609De50D511C437572E](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/address/0x91169Dbb45e6804743F94609De50D511C437572E)         |
| L2 ERC20 Gateway      | [0x09e9222E96E7B4AE2a407B98d48e330053351EEe](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x09e9222E96E7B4AE2a407B98d48e330053351EEe)  | [0x195C107F3F75c4C93Eba7d9a1312F19305d6375f](https://rinkeby-explorer.arbitrum.io/address/0x195C107F3F75c4C93Eba7d9a1312F19305d6375f) |
| L1 Arb-Custom Gateway | [0xcEe284F754E854890e311e3280b767F80797180d](https://etherscan.io/address/0xcEe284F754E854890e311e3280b767F80797180d) | [0x917dc9a69F65dC3082D518192cd3725E1Fa96cA2](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/address/0x917dc9a69F65dC3082D518192cd3725E1Fa96cA2)         |
| L2 Arb-Custom Gateway | [0x096760F208390250649E3e8763348E783AEF5562](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x096760F208390250649E3e8763348E783AEF5562)  | [0x9b014455AcC2Fe90c52803849d0002aeEC184a06](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x9b014455AcC2Fe90c52803849d0002aeEC184a06)                  |
| L1 Weth Gateway       | [0xd92023E9d9911199a6711321D1277285e6d4e2db](https://etherscan.io/address/0xd92023E9d9911199a6711321D1277285e6d4e2db) | [0x81d1a19cf7071732D4313c75dE8DD5b8CF697eFD](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/address/0x81d1a19cf7071732D4313c75dE8DD5b8CF697eFD)         |
| L2 Weth Gateway       | [0x6c411aD3E74De3E7Bd422b94A27770f5B86C623B](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x6c411aD3E74De3E7Bd422b94A27770f5B86C623B)  | [0xf94bc045c4E926CC0b34e8D1c41Cd7a043304ac9](https://arbiscan.io/address/0xf94bc045c4E926CC0b34e8D1c41Cd7a043304ac9)                  |
| L1 Weth               | [0xc02aaa39b223fe8d0a0e5c4f27ead9083c756cc2](https://etherscan.io/address/0xc02aaa39b223fe8d0a0e5c4f27ead9083c756cc2) | [0xc778417E063141139Fce010982780140Aa0cD5Ab](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/address/0xc778417E063141139Fce010982780140Aa0cD5Ab)         |
| L2 Weth               | [0x82aF49447D8a07e3bd95BD0d56f35241523fBab1](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x82aF49447D8a07e3bd95BD0d56f35241523fBab1)  | [0xB47e6A5f8b33b3F17603C83a0535A9dcD7E32681](https://arbiscan.io/address/0xB47e6A5f8b33b3F17603C83a0535A9dcD7E32681)                  |

### Arbitrum Precompiles (L2, same on all Arb-chains)

|                  | Address                                                                                                              |
| ---------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ArbSys           | [0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000064](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000064) |
| ArbRetryableTx   | [0x000000000000000000000000000000000000006E](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x000000000000000000000000000000000000006E) |
| ArbGasInfo       | [0x000000000000000000000000000000000000006C](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x000000000000000000000000000000000000006C) |
| ArbAddressTable  | [0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000066](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000066) |
| ArbStatistics    | [0x000000000000000000000000000000000000006F](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x000000000000000000000000000000000000006F) |
| NodeInterface    | [0x00000000000000000000000000000000000000C8](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x00000000000000000000000000000000000000C8) |
| ArbBLS           | [0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000067](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000067) |
| ArbInfo          | [0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000065](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000065) |
| ArbAggregator    | [0x000000000000000000000000000000000000006D](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x000000000000000000000000000000000000006D) |
| ArbFunctionTable | [0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000068](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000068) |

### Misc

|              | Mainnet                                                                                                              | Rinkeby                                                                                                                               |
| ------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| L2 Multicall | [0x842eC2c7D803033Edf55E478F461FC547Bc54EB2](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x842eC2c7D803033Edf55E478F461FC547Bc54EB2) | [0x5D6e06d3E154C5DBEC91317f0d04AE03AB49A273](https://rinkeby-explorer.arbitrum.io/address/0x5D6e06d3E154C5DBEC91317f0d04AE03AB49A273) |
